# maxpedigree2.0

Today scientific research in every field is becoming more and more dependent on data analysis. Traditional approaches to data analysis consume lots of valuable research time. Some free software available in the market for data visualization and statistical analysis does fulfill the purpose of data analysis, but either they are not interactive or need special programming knowledge to perform data analysis. Also, a research often includes multiple kinds of statistical data analysis and visualization. To fulfill this need they eventually end up using multiple software and each different software has their own convention of data representation. It leads to extra work of maintaining the same data in different formats. To fulfill this gap and save research time for plant breeders, we have developed an application called as MaxPedigree v2.0. 
 MaxPedigree is a web-based statistical analysis and visualization tool for soybean plant breeders. It empowers plant breeders with a fast, reliable, and secure one-stop platform for their multiple analysis and visualization needs. Core functionalities include pedigree visualization, principal component analysis (PCA) of SNP data, SNP/cultivar data validation, Storage/retrieval of SNP data, colorful traits visualization of data and hierarchical clustering. It also provides an interactive search to easily access the pedigree and traits of existing and historical cultivars/breeding lines for both parental and progeny selection. All the information is stored in a secured RDBMS database. Although MaxPedigree is developed for Soybean plant, once established, could also be applied to other crops such as maize, cotton, peanut, and wheat.
